.. date: 2024-05-08-21-59-38
.. gh-issue: 118773
.. nonce: 7dFRJY
.. release date: 2024-06-24
.. section: Security

Fixes creation of ACLs in :func:`os.mkdir` on Windows to work correctly on
non-English machines.

..

.. date: 2024-05-01-20-57-09
.. gh-issue: 118486
.. nonce: K44KJG
.. section: Security

:func:`os.mkdir` on Windows now accepts *mode* of ``0o700`` to restrict the
new directory to the current user. This fixes :cve:`2024-4030` affecting
:func:`tempfile.mkdtemp` in scenarios where the base temporary directory is
more permissive than the default.

..

.. date: 2024-05-16-23-02-03
.. gh-issue: 119049
.. nonce: qpd_S-
.. section: Core and Builtins

Fix displaying the source line for warnings created by the C API if the
:mod:`warnings` module had not yet been imported.

..

.. date: 2024-05-11-21-44-17
.. gh-issue: 118844
.. nonce: q2H_km
.. section: Core and Builtins

Fix build failures when configuring with both ``--disable-gil`` and
``--enable-experimental-jit``.

..

.. date: 2024-05-10-19-54-18
.. gh-issue: 118921
.. nonce: O4ztZG
.. section: Core and Builtins

Add ``copy()`` method for ``FrameLocalsProxy`` which returns a snapshot
``dict`` for local variables.

..

.. date: 2024-05-09-19-47-12
.. gh-issue: 117657
.. nonce: Vn0Yey
.. section: Core and Builtins

Fix data races on the field that stores a pointer to the interpreter's main
thread that occur in free-threaded builds.

..

.. date: 2024-05-09-02-37-25
.. gh-issue: 118750
.. nonce: 7aLfT-
.. section: Core and Builtins

If the C version of the ``decimal`` module is available, ``int(str)`` now
uses it to supply an asymptotically much faster conversion. However, this
only applies if the string contains over about 2 million digits.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-09-44-15
.. gh-issue: 118767
.. nonce: iFF5F5
.. section: Core and Builtins

Using :data:`NotImplemented` in a boolean context now raises
:exc:`TypeError`. Contributed by Jelle Zijlstra.

..

.. date: 2024-05-07-16-57-56
.. gh-issue: 118561
.. nonce: wNMKVd
.. section: Core and Builtins

Fix race condition in free-threaded build where :meth:`list.extend` could
expose uninitialied memory to concurrent readers.

..

.. date: 2024-05-19-13-05-59
.. gh-issue: 119121
.. nonce: P1gnh1
.. section: Library

Fix a NameError happening in ``asyncio.staggered.staggered_race``. This
function is now tested.

..

.. date: 2024-05-19-12-25-36
.. gh-issue: 119105
.. nonce: VcR4ig
.. section: Library

``difflib.Differ`` is much faster for some cases of diffs where many pairs
of lines are equally similar.

..

.. date: 2024-05-17-17-32-12
.. gh-issue: 119113
.. nonce: kEv1Ll
.. section: Library

Fix issue where :meth:`pathlib.PurePath.with_suffix` didn't raise
:exc:`TypeError` when given ``None`` as a suffix.

..

.. date: 2024-05-12-21-38-42
.. gh-issue: 58933
.. nonce: 0kgU2l
.. section: Library

Make :mod:`pdb` return to caller frame correctly when ``f_trace`` of the
caller frame is not set

..

.. date: 2024-05-10-22-59-01
.. gh-issue: 118924
.. nonce: 9nyvSH
.. section: Library

Remove :data:`!version` and :data:`!version_info` from :mod:`sqlite3`. Patch
by Hugo van Kemenade.

..

.. date: 2024-05-10-22-36-01
.. gh-issue: 118928
.. nonce: IW7Ukv
.. section: Library

Disallow using a sequence of parameters with named placeholders in
:mod:`sqlite3` queries. Patch by Erlend E. Aasland.

..

.. date: 2024-05-10-05-24-32
.. gh-issue: 118895
.. nonce: wUm5r2
.. section: Library

Setting attributes on :data:`typing.NoDefault` now raises
:exc:`AttributeError` instead of :exc:`TypeError`.

..

.. date: 2024-05-09-08-46-12
.. gh-issue: 118851
.. nonce: aPAoJw
.. section: Library

``ctx`` arguments to the constructors of :mod:`ast` node classes now default
to :class:`ast.Load() <ast.Load>`. Patch by Jelle Zijlstra.

..

.. date: 2024-05-09-02-43-37
.. gh-issue: 101588
.. nonce: 30bNAr
.. section: Library

Remove copy, deepcopy, and pickle from itertools. These had previously
raised a DeprecationWarning since Python 3.12.

..

.. date: 2024-05-09-01-05-52
.. gh-issue: 118805
.. nonce: N7dm07
.. section: Library

Remove *type*, *choices*, and *metavar* parameters of
:class:`!argparse.BooleanOptionalAction`. They were deprecated since Python
3.12.

..

.. date: 2024-05-09-00-52-30
.. gh-issue: 118803
.. nonce: Wv3AvU
.. section: Library

:class:`!typing.ByteString` and :class:`!collections.abc.ByteString` are
removed. They had previously raised a :exc:`DeprecationWarning` since Python
3.12.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-23-16-50
.. gh-issue: 118798
.. nonce: Q_ybqP
.. section: Library

The *isdst* parameter has been removed from :func:`email.utils.localtime`.
Patch by Hugo van Kemenade.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-21-13-56
.. gh-issue: 118760
.. nonce: mdmH3T
.. section: Library

Fix errors in calling Tkinter bindings on Windows.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-20-41-48
.. gh-issue: 74033
.. nonce: YebHZj
.. section: Library

Drop support for passing keyword arguments to :class:`pathlib.Path`.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-19-47-34
.. gh-issue: 101357
.. nonce: e4R_9x
.. section: Library

Suppress all :exc:`OSError` exceptions from :meth:`pathlib.Path.exists` and
``is_*()`` methods, rather than a selection of more common errors. The new
behaviour is consistent with :func:`os.path.exists`, :func:`os.path.isdir`,
etc. Use :meth:`Path.stat` to retrieve the file status without suppressing
exceptions.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-18-59-19
.. gh-issue: 78707
.. nonce: _Lz1sw
.. section: Library

Drop support for passing additional positional arguments to
:meth:`pathlib.PurePath.relative_to` and
:meth:`~pathlib.PurePath.is_relative_to`.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-09-21-49
.. gh-issue: 118772
.. nonce: c16E8X
.. section: Library

Allow :class:`typing.TypeVar` instances without a default to follow
instances without a default in some cases. Patch by Jelle Zijlstra.

..

.. date: 2024-05-01-22-24-05
.. gh-issue: 110863
.. nonce: GjYBbq
.. section: Library

:func:`os.path.realpath` now suppresses any :exc:`OSError` from
:func:`os.readlink` when *strict* mode is disabled (the default).

..

.. date: 2024-04-19-14-59-53
.. gh-issue: 118033
.. nonce: amS4Gw
.. section: Library

Fix :func:`dataclasses.dataclass` not creating a ``__weakref__`` slot when
subclassing :class:`typing.Generic`.

..

.. date: 2023-04-28-09-54-15
.. gh-issue: 103956
.. nonce: EyLDPS
.. section: Library

Fix lack of newline characters in :mod:`trace` module output when line
tracing is enabled but source code line for current frame is not available.

..

.. date: 2023-04-10-00-04-37
.. gh-issue: 87106
.. nonce: UyBnPQ
.. section: Library

Fixed handling in :meth:`inspect.signature.bind` of keyword arguments having
the same name as positional-only arguments when a variadic keyword argument
(e.g. ``**kwargs``) is present.

..

.. date: 2019-08-27-01-16-50
.. gh-issue: 67693
.. nonce: 4NIAiy
.. section: Library

Fix :func:`urllib.parse.urlunparse` and :func:`urllib.parse.urlunsplit` for
URIs with path starting with multiple slashes and no authority. Based on
patch by Ashwin Ramaswami.

..

.. date: 2024-05-17-19-53-27
.. gh-issue: 119132
.. nonce: wepPgM
.. section: Build

Update :data:`sys.version` to identify whether the build is default build or
free-threading build. Patch By Donghee Na.

..

.. date: 2024-05-13-15-57-58
.. gh-issue: 118836
.. nonce: 7yN1iB
.. section: Build

Fix an ``AssertionError`` when building with ``--enable-experimental-jit``
and the compiler emits a ``SHT_NOTE`` section.

..

.. date: 2024-05-11-15-11-30
.. gh-issue: 118943
.. nonce: VI_MnY
.. section: Build

Fix a possible race condition affecting parallel builds configured with
``--enable-experimental-jit``, in which compilation errors could be caused
by an incompletely-generated header file.

..

.. date: 2024-04-24-05-16-32
.. gh-issue: 118209
.. nonce: Ryyzlz
.. section: Windows

Avoid crashing in :mod:`mmap` on Windows when the mapped memory is
inaccessible due to file system errors or access violations.

..

.. date: 2024-05-10-15-43-14
.. gh-issue: 118771
.. nonce: 5KVglT
.. section: C API

Several C declarations with names that didn't start with the ``Py`` or
``_Py`` prefixes, which were added by mistake in 3.13 alpha and beta
releases, were moved to internal headers.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-23-14-06
.. gh-issue: 116984
.. nonce: 5sgcDo
.. section: C API

Make mimalloc includes relative to the current file to avoid embedders or
extensions needing to include ``Internal/mimalloc`` if they are already
including internal CPython headers.

..

.. date: 2024-05-08-20-13-00
.. gh-issue: 118789
.. nonce: m88uUa
.. section: C API

Restore ``_PyWeakref_ClearRef`` that was previously removed in Python 3.13
alpha 1.
